# Background

We need to develop the skill to research a stock well and develop a point of view which should be directional as well as include the following - 

1. Price at which one should buy and sell stocks
2. Risk Involved
3. Expected Reward
4. Expected holding period

Technical Analysis (TA) is a technique that helps us develop the point of view and trade keeping like entry, exit and risk perspective.

## 1. What is Technical Analysis?

We'll understand this with an analogy. Let us suppose we are in a eat street in a different country and we don't know what to have for dinner as there are just too many options. So, we have two options here - 

* **Option 1** - Visit a vendor, check for the ingredients,cooking style, taste a bit of food and move on to another one. After tasting across 5-6 stalls, we would probabl have a decision and end up eating at a place we liked the most. The advantage here is that we know exactly what we are eating because we researched it on our own but this method is not scalable as there are more than 100 vendors there is a high probability that we missed the best one.

* **Option 2** - Here we observe the market and see which vendor has maximum crowd. Based on the opinion of public and the **assumption** that they would be right we conclude that this might be the vendor selling best food. advantage here is scalability. But then, crowd may not always be right.

Option 1 is like Fundamental Analysis where we research few companies thoroughly whereas Option 2 is like Technical Analysis where we scan opportunities based on current trends and preferences of markets and market prticipants. The actions of makret participants are visualised by **Stock Charts**. We need to develop a point of view with the help of these charts.

Both FA and TA are useful in various conditions and we should have a good grip on both.

## 2. Setting Expectations

It is important to duly note that TA is efficient but it is not quick and easy. it is important to know what we are going into and set proper expectations in order to be a good technical analyst and save ourselves from debacles.

* **Trades** - TA is used for short term trades. We do not use TA but FA for long term investments. Also if we are a fundamental analyst, we can use TA for calibrating entry and exit points.

* **Return per Trade** - TA based trades are short term in nature so we cannot expect a huge profit. We need to focus on making consistent small profits instead.

* **Holding Period** - Anywhere between few minutes to few weeks. We will explore furthr in timeframes.

* **Risk** - Traders tend to hold their stock even while losing money thinking that the stock would revive and hey will recover the loss. But we should remember that TA is short termed analysis and in case trade goes sour, we should cut out on our losses and seek another opportunity.



