# Getting started with Candlesticks

As was mentioned in one of the previous chapters too, one of the key assumption in technical Analyis is that History tends to repeat itself. It makes sense to discuss this assumption as candlestick patterns are heavily dependent on it.

## History tends to repeat itself - The Big Assumption

Let's say on 7th July, there are few things happening in a particular stock. We will call it as factor
* Factor 1 – The stock has been falling for the last 4 consecutive trading sessions
* Factor 2 –Today (7th July 2014) is the 5th session and the stock is falling on relatively lower volumes
* Factor 3 – The range in which the stock trades today is quite small compared to the last four days

Let us assume that next day stock gets arrested and rallies towards a positive close. So as an outcome of 3 factors, the stocks went up on 6th day.

Now let us suppose after a few months the same set of factors appear for 5 trading sessions. Now we would assume that the stock would go up on 6th day according to the assumption that history repeats itself provided the conditions are same.

## Candlestick Patterns and What to Observe?

Candlesticks are used to identify trading patterns. Patterns can be seen in groups of multiple candlesticks stacked together oe even in a single candlestick. Patterns are the things on which a trader sets up his trade.

### In single candlestick, we will learn the following - 

* Marubozu
> 1. Bullish Marubozu
> 2. Bearish Marubozu
* Doji
* Spinning Tops
* Paper Umbrella
> 1. Hammer
> 2. Hangman
* Shooting Star

### In multiple candlestick patterns, we will learn - 

* Engulfing Pattern
> 1. Bullish engulfing
> 2. Bearish engulfing
* Harami
> 1. Bullish Harami
> 2. Bearish Harami
* Piercing Pattern
* Dark Cloud Cover
* Morning Star
* Evening star

Candlesticks help to develop a complete point of view. Each pattern comes with inbuilt risk mechanisms. Candlesticks give insight into both entry and stop loss price.

## Few Assumptions specific to Candlesticks

These are very important assumptions specific to candlesticks.

* **Buy Strength and Sell Weakness** - Strength is represented by a bullish (blue) candle and weakness by a bearish (red) candle. Hence, whenever buying, ensure it's a blue candle day and whenever selling, ensure it's a red candle day.

* **Be flexible with patterns (quantify and verify)** - There can be minor variations in the patterns owing to the market conditions. So, we need to be a bit flexible. However, we need to be flexible within limits.

* **Look for a prior trend** - If you are looking for bullish trend, the prior trend should be bearish. If we are looking for bearish pattern, the prior trend should be bullish.







