# Clearing and Settlement Process

As a trader or investor, we don not really need to worry about the clearing and settleing process as there are many professional intermediaries who make sure that everything is done seamlessly. Yet it is important to know what happens under the hood to have a sense of completeness in knowledge.

## 1. What happens when we buy a Stock?

All equity settlements in India happen on T+2 basis. We will see what this means - 

### Day 1 (T day)

* Assume we buy 100 shares of Reliance for 1000 rs each. So, at the end of T(Trading) Day, our broker would debit Rs 100,000 + applicable charges from our bank account. So money goes out of the trading account but stocks do not come in DEMAT account yet.
* Broker also gives a 'contract note' which is kind of a bill for our transaction.

### Day 2 (T+1 day)

* This day we can sell the stock. Selling the stock on T+1 day is called “Buy Today, Sell Tomorrow” (BTST) or “Acquire Today, Sell Tomorrow” (ATST). As we are trading the stocks that are not in our account yet, it could be a trouble especially if the stocks are B group or illiquid stocks.
* If we don't do BTST, then nothing happens on T+1 from our perspective. In background, money is collected by Exchange.

### Day 3(T+2 day)

* At around 11 AM, shares are debited from seller and credited to brokerage who credits them to our DEMAT account. 
* Similarly, the money is credited into sellers account.

So, shares reflect in our account by the end of T+2 day and we can start trading from T+3 day.

## 2. What happens when we sell a stock?

* When we sell the stock, it gets blocked and the shares are taken by the exchange on T day.
* On T+2 day, funds are credited in our trading account.
