# Five Corporate Actions and Its Impact on Stock Prices

Corporate actions are initiatives taken u by corporates to bring change to it's stock. Kind of corporate actions taken up can give us a good picture of company's financial health. These actions are initiate by board of directors and approved by shareholders.

We will see 5 corporate actions here. 

## 1. Dividends

* Dividends are paid by companies to their shareholders to distribute the profits made by them. Dividends are paid on per share basis.
* Dividend is also expressed as a percentage of Face Value. For ex. if FV is Rs 5 and dividend is Rs. 42, dividend payout is (42/5) 840%.
* It's company's choice to pay dividends, It can choose not to and use the profits for company utilisation instead.
* Dividends can even be payed from cash reserve of the company if the profits are low.
* Sometimes, when the opportunities for companie's growth have exhausted, they can repay the trust of shareholders in the form of divivdends.

### Decision to pay Dividends

The decision is taken by board in Annual General Meeting (AGM). Following Dividend Cycle is followed thereafter - 

1. **Dividend Declaration Date** - Date of AGM. This is the day when company decides to issue dividends
2. **Record Date** - Company decides the shareholders eligible for dividends.
3. **Ex-Date/Ex Dividend date** - This date is generally set two days before the record date because we follow transactions on T+2 basis. Anyone who holds shares before Ex Date is eligible for dividends.
4. **Dividend Payout Date** - Day when dividends are paid out to eligible shareholders.
5. **Cum Dividend** - Shares are said to be cum dividend till the Ex dividend date.

When the dividends are paid out (or the stock is ex dividend), the stock price drops to extent of dividends paid. For ex, if stock price was Rs. 335 and Rs 5 was dividend announced, then after Ex-dividend date, stock price would be Rs 330 as the company no longer holds that Rs 5 per share.

## 2. Bonus Issue

It is like a dividend but given in stock. These are free shares given by the companies from the reserves of the company to the shareholders generally in ratios like 2:1,1:1, 3:1 etc. Let us see an example - 


Bonus Issue|	No of shares held before bonus|	Share price before Bonus issue|	Value of Investment|	Number of shares held after Bonus|	Share price after Bonus issue|	Value of Investment
----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
1:1|	100|	75|	7,500	|200|	37.5|	7500|
3:1	|30	|550	|16,500	|120	|137.5|	16,500|
5:1	|2000|	15	|30,000|	12,000|	2.5|	30,000|

* Like Dividend issue, here too we have Bonus Announcement Date, Ex-Bonus Date and Record date.
* companies issue bonus issue share to increase retail participation especially if the share price is very high as issuing new shares decreases price per share.
* Face Value of share remains unchanged.

## 3. Stock Split

* In Stock split, number of shares held by a shareholder increase but investment value remains same.
* It is done in reference to face value. 
* Stock Split is done to encourage retail participation as price of one share decreases.


Split Ratio|	Old FV|	No of shares you own before split|	Share Price before split|	Investment Value before split|	New FV|	No of shares you own after the split|	Share Price after the split|	Investment value after the split|
---| ---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
1:2|	10|	100|	900|	90,000|	5|	200|	450	|90,000|
1:5	|10	|100	|900	|90,000	|2	|500	|180	|90,000|

## 4. Rights Issue

* It is done to raise fresh capital from existing shareholders by issuing them new shares for discounted price.
* Rights Issue could be an indication of a promising new development.
* Investor should be sure about company's future and then only subsscribe for rights issue.

## 5. Buyback of Shares

Company buys it's shares from the market reducing the number of standing shares in the market. Reasons involved maybe - 

* To improve profitability on a per share basis
* To consolidate their stake in company
* To prevent other companies from taking over
* To show confidence of promoters about their company
* To support share price from declining in the market

A buyback is usually a positive sign for share price as it shows company's confidence in itself.





