# Key Events and Their Impact on Markets

There are events and factors that have impact on performance of stocks and markets in general irrespective of the companies. We will look upon those events here.

## 1. Monetary Policy

Monetary policy is the tool by which RBI controls money supply by changing the interest rates on loans. RBI has to make balance between growth and inflation. This is because if interest rates are high, companies find it harder to borrow and economy slows down whereas if rates are low, company borrow more and there is increased spending leading to inflation.

Key RBI rates to track are - 

* **Repo Rate** - This is the rate at which RBI lends money to other banks. High repo rate means less borrowing and thus slow growth of economy.
* **Reverse Repo Rate** - This is the rate at which RBI borrows from banks. Banks want to lend money to RBI as it does not default. However, this reduces the supply of money in banking system.
* **Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)** - Banks are required to maintain funds. However, increasing CRR means more money is removed from the system which is not good for the conomy.

RBI meets every two months to review these rates.

## 2. Inflation

Inflation is measured by using two types of indexes. They are -

* **Wholesale Price Index(WPI)** - It captures price increase/decrease when sold between organisations opposed to actual consumers.
* **Consumer Price Index(CPI)** - CPI captures change in prices at retail level. CPI calculation involves classification into various categories across urban and rural regions. Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) publishes CPI numbers every month.

Low interest rates lead to higher inflation and vice versa.

## 3. Index of Industrial Production (IIP)

IIP is a short term indicator of progress of Industrial sector in country. Data is released by MOSPI every month with a base year as a reference point.

* High IIP indicates vibrant industrial environment and positive sign for economy. 
* Low IIP indicates less production and is negative sign for economy and markets. Low IIP forces RBI to reduce interest rates.

## 4. Purchasing Managers Index (PMI)

It captures business activity across manufacturing and service sectors of the country. This is a survey based index where the perceptions of the purchasing managers are taken and converted into index.

PMI oscillates around 50. Above 50 indicates expansion and below 50 indicates contraction.

## 5. Budget

Budget is announced annually in last week of February. Major polciy announcements and economic reforms have impact on various industries which in turn has great impact on decisions in stock market.

* For ex, if duties on cigarettes are raised
>* Price of cigarette increases, less people tend to buy cigarettes and thus profitability of cigarette company decreases
>* Investors start to sell the shares which leads to market coming down because company is an index heavyweight.

## 6. Corporate Earning Announcement

Listed companies are required to declare their earning numbers once in every quarter called as quarterly earning announcement. Company gives out the following details - 

* Revenue generated
* How company managed its expenses
* Money the company paid in taxes and interest charges
* profitability during the quarter

Some companies give an overview of their expectations from the upcoming quarters. This is called 'corporate guidance'

Earning season in India - 


Sl No|	Months|	Quarter|	Result Announcement
---|---|---|---|
01|	April to June|	Quarter 1 (Q1)	|1st week of July
02|	July to September|	Quarter 2 (Q2)|	1st week of Oct
03|	October to December|	Quarter 3 (Q3)|	1st Week of Jan
04|	January to March	|Quarter 4 (Q4)	|1st Week of April

Market participant's match the earnings with their own expectation of how much the company should have earned. This is called 'street expectation'. Stock price reacts positively if company's earnings are better than street expectation.

















