## Regulators

* Stock markets are the place where we buy or sell shares of companies
* Stock is completely electronic
* We can acces stock market via a registered intermediary called stockbroker

### 1. Stock market participants and their regulation

Anyone participating in stock market is a market participant. Some categories are - 
<br>
<br>
* **Domestic Retail participants** - Normal people transacting in market
* **NRI and OCI's** - Non Resident Indian and Overseas citizenship
* **Domestic institutions** - Large corporate based entities in India. exampe LIC
* **Domestic Asset Management Companies (AMC)** - Typical participants are mutual fund companies like SBI Mutual fund, DSP black rock, Fidelity investments, HDFC AMC etc.
* **Foreign Institutional Investors** - Non indian corporates like foreign AMC's , hedge funds etc.
<br>
<br>
Stocks market needs someone to set rules and ensure that there is no unfairness.
<br>

### 2. The Regulator

* **The Securities and Exchange Board of India** referred as SEBI. SEBI ensures that - 
* BSE and NSE run fairly
* Stock brokers and sub brokers conduct fairly
* Corporates don't use markets to unduly benefit themselves (Satyam computers)
* Small retail investors interests are protected
* Overall development of markets
      
<br>
Legal Framework is available on website of SEBI.
<br>

Entity | Companies | What do they do? | In simple words
-------| ----------| ---------| --------|
Credit rating agencies(CRA) | CRISIL,ICRA,CARE | They rate credit worthiness | if govt agency or corporate wants to avail loans,CRA checks if the entity is worth it |
Debenture Trustees | Almost all banks in India | Act as a trustee to corporate debenture | when a company wants to raise loans it can issue debenture against which they promise to pay interest. These dbentures can be subscribed by public. Debenture trustees ensure that debenture obligation is honored |
Depositories | NSDL and CDSL | Safekeeping, reporting and settlement of client securities | Acts like a vault for your shares. Depositories hold shares and facilitate exchange of secirities. Shares sit in depository account also called as DEMAT account. This is maintained by only two companies in India|
Depository Participant (DP) | Most banks and few stock brokers | Act as an agent to the two depositories | We cannot directly interact with NSDL or CDSL, We need to liason with a DP to open and maintain DEMAT account | 
Foreign Institutional Investors | Foreign corporates, firms and individuals | Make investments in India | Generally have huge capital, thus their activity impacts market sentiment | 
Merchant Bankers | Karvy, Axis Bank, Edelweiss Capital | Help companies raise money in primary markets | If company wishes to float IPO, merchant bankers help in the process | 
Assset Management Companies(AMC) | HDFC AMC, Reliance Capital, SBI Capital | Offer Mutual Fund Schemes | AMC collects money from public, makes one big pool and then invests with motive to generate wealth to investors | 
Portfolio Managers/Portfolio management systems(PMS) | Religare Wealth Management, Parag Parikh PMS | Offer PMS schemes | They work similarly to mutual funds but minimum investment of 25 lakh, there is no such limit in mutual funds |
Stock Brokers and Sub brokers | Zerodha, Sharekhan, ICICI Direct | Act as intermediary between an investor and stock exchange | Whenever we want to buy or sell shares from stock exchange, we have to do so by registered stock brokers or sub brokers | 





  


































