## Financial Intermediaries

These are the companies who work for smooth flow and efficent transactions in stock markets. Financial intermediaries create the ecosystem in which financial markets exist.Examples are stockbrokers.

### 1. The Stock Broker

  * Stock broker is a corporate entity, registered as a trading member with stockexchange and holds a license for stock broking. It is our gateway to stock exchange
  * To begin, we need to open a 'Trading account' with a broker who meets your requirements.
  * Requirement can be as simple as proximity between your and your broker's house and it can be as complex as a broker who provides us a single platform to transact across multiple exchanges across the world.
  * Trading account lets us carry transactions. It is an account with the broker which lets the investor buy or sell securities
  <br>
  
Assuming that we have an account, there are multiple ways to interact with the broker
<br>
<br>
* Meet the dealer personally in stock broker's office and tell him what we wish to do
* Make a call, identify with client code and tell the broker what to do
* Do it ourselves. Broker gives us acces to trading terminal where we can view live price quotes in the market and  can place orders ourselves.

<br>
Basic services of broker include - 
<br>
<br>

* give access to markets and let you transact
* Give margins for trading - later
* Provide support
* issue contract notes for for transactions - contract note is a detailed written confirmation of transactions carried out during the entire day
* Facilitate fund transfer between trading and bank account
* Provide you with a back office login - using which we can see the summary of our account
* Broker charges a fees called brokerage for services they provide, it's upto us to select a broker according to services provided.

<br>
### 2. Depository and Depository participants  
<br>
<br>

  * It is important to store property papers ina safe place
  * Similarly, when we oen a share, only way to prove it is to have a share certificate which is nothing but a piece of document entitling our ownership of the company.
  * Before 1996, share certificates were in paper format but were converted into digital format and was called as 'Dematerialisation' often abbreviated as DEMAT.
  * share certificate has to be stored in DEMAT form. The store place for digital share ertificate is DEMAT Account
  * Depository is a financial intermediary which offers services of DEMAT account. DEMAT account is a digital vault for our shares.
  * Trading account from broker and DEMAT account from Depository are interlinked.
  * So if we want to buy shares of let's say Reliance, we just buy them using our trading account and the share certificate sits in DEMAT account
  * In India , we have two depositories National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL)
  * Just like we canot just walk into a NSE for opening a trading account, we cannot just walk into Depository for DEMAT account. To open a DEMAT account, we need liasion with a depository participant
  * Thus DP acts as an agent with Depository
  <br>
### 3. Banks
<br>
<br>
  * Banks just help in transacting money from trading account and bank account
  * We can link multipe bank accounts but one is primary
  * Withdrawals are on;y processed to primary bank account
  * Primary bank account is connected to Trading account, depository and transfer agents(RTA)
  * 3 financial intermediaries operate by three accounts that are trading account, DEMAT account and bank account
  <br>
### 4. NSCCL and ICCL
<br>
<br>
  * National Security Clearing Corporation Limited and Indian Clearing Corporation are wholly owned subsidiaries of NSE and BSE respectivey.
  * Job of clearing corporation is to ensure guaranteed settlement of our trade.
  * For example identifying the buyer and the seller and transferring money from bank accounts
  * It ensures that there are no defaults by either party for example we cannot backout after share is selled

  

