## The IPO Markets Part 1

The basic question we ask now is that why do companies go public? A good understanding of the answer of this question is quite essential.

### 1. Origin of a business

 Firstly, let us try to understand how a typical business origins by building a story comprising of various scenes.
 <br>
* Scene 1 - The Angels
> * Let us imagine an entreprenuer with a great idea to sell t shirts but where does he get his initial money from. He could approach banks for loans but that might not be the best option.
>* So he pools his money with two of his friends money to start. Because these two friends are investing in pre avenue stage and taking a blind bet on the entrepreneur , they are called **Angel investors**
>* Money from angels is not loan, it is an investment they make
>* Let us say they pool 5 cr rupees together. This initial money to kickstart the business is called **The seed Fund** .The seed fund does not sit in promoters bank account but that of companies account.
>* Once the seed fund hits the company's bank account, it would be reffered to as the **shared capital**
>* In return for initial investment, the promoter and the 2 angel investors would be issued share certificates which entitle them the ownership of the company.
>* The only asset that company has right now is rs 5cr. hence, the value of the company is rs 5cr. This is called company's **valuation**
>* Let us say they decide to issue shares on Face value of rs 10. Then a total of 50 lakh shares would be there.
>* The total 50 lakh shares are called **Authorised shares** of the company. Now, some of these shares have to be issue to the promoter and the angel investors while some would be kept by the company to issue in future.
>* promoter keeps 40% and two other keep 5-5% each, then this alloted portion is called **Issued Shares**
>* The rest of the 50 % shares are authorised but not alloted
>* Now, the promoter initially sets up one manufacturing unit and one retail store

Sl No|	Name of Share Holder|	No of Shares|	%Holding
----| ----| ----| ----|
1|	Promoter	|2,000,000	|40%
2	|Angel 1|	250,000	|05%
3	|Angel 2	|250,000|	05%
Total	|2,500,000	|50%

* Scene 2 - The Venture Capitalist
>* The business has now take off and the promoter wants to expand by adding 1 manufactring unit and few more retail stores. He fihures out that new investment needs Rs 7 Cr.
>* As his business is now generating revenues, he is in a position to attract more investors. He meets one suvh professional who agrees to give 7 cr foe 14% stake in his company.
>* The investor who invests in a business in suvh early stages are called **Venture Capitalists** and the money businesses get at this stage is called **Series A** funding.
>* Now the share holding pattern has changed and the 64% are issued while 36% are still unalloted.

Sl No|	Name of Share Holder|	No of Shares|	%Holding
----| ----| ----| ----|
1	|Promoter	|2,000,000	|40%
2	|Angel 1	|250,000|	05%
3	|Angel 2	|250,000	|05%
4	|Venture Capitalist|	700,000|	14%
Total|	3,200,000	|64%
>* Now, something really interesting happens . When the VC invests Rs 7Cr for 14 % shares, he is valuing the entire business at rs 50Cr. Thus, with the initial valuation of 5 Cr, there is a 10 fold increase in comapany's valuation.
>* With the valuations going up, investments by initial investors will have an impact as summarised below.

Sl no |	Name of Share Holder|Initial Shareholding|	Initial Valuation	|Shareholding after 2 Yrs|	Valuation after 2 Yrs|	Wealth Created
----| ----| ----| ----| -----| -----| ----|
1|	Promoter|	40%|	2 Crs	|40%	|20 Crs|	10 times
2	|Angel 1	|05%	|25 Lakhs	|05%|	2.5 Crs	|10 times
3|Angel 2	|05%|	25 Lakhs|	05%	|2.5 Crs|	10 times
4	|Venture Capitalist|	0%	|-NA-|	14%	|07 Crs	|-NA-
Total|	50%|	2.5 Crs|	64%|	32 Crs

>* Going forward, now are business is expanding even more and everything's going great

* **Scene 3 - The banker**

>* Now the company wants to expand more. Whenever a ompany plans expebditure for overall expansion of the business, the expenditure is called **Capital Expenditure** or **CAPEX**
>* There are few options to raise CAPEX
>> 1. from profits generated by the company. This is also called funding through **internal accruals**
>> 2. from getting funds from another venture capitalist, this is called **series B funding**
>> 3. Company can take a loan from bank. The loan is called **debt**
>* company decides to do all three , 15 cr from internal accruals, 10 crs from series B funding by divesting 5 % equity and 15 cr debt from bank
>* Now with 5% shares at 10 Cr, the valuation of whole company stands at 200 Cr.
>* Shareholding and valuation now look like

Sl No|	Name of Share Holder	|No of Shares|	%Holding	|Valuation
----| ----| ----| ----| ----|
1|	Promoter	|2,000,000	|40% |80 Crs
2	|Angel 1	|250,000	|05%	|10 Crs
3	|Angel 2|	250,000	|05%	|10 Crs
4	|VC Series A	|700,000	|14%|	28 Crs
5	|VC Series B|	250,000	|05%	|10 Crs

>* Company still has 31 % shares valued at 62 Cr. This is exactly what heppens to entrepreneurs with great business ideas and highly competent management teams.

* **Scene 4 - The Private Equity**

The company wants to expand more and this time they need a CAPEX of 60 Crs.

>* Company does not want to take debt because of interest rate burdens, also calles finance charges a sthey would eat up the profits
>* The decide to allot shares for a Series C Funding. They cannot approach a VC as their funding is small so they contact a **Private Equity (PE)** Investor.
>* PE's invest large sum of money and also put some of their people on the board of the company to ensure the company steers in right direction.
>* Assuming they take 15% for 60Crs, they have now evaluated the company to 400 Cr.
>* Evaluation table now looks like - 


Sl No|	Name of Share Holder|	No of Shares|	%Holding	|Valuation (in Crs)
----| ----| ---| ----| ----|
1	|Promoter|	2,000,000|	40%	|160
2	|Angel 1	|250,000|	05%	|20
3	|Angel 2|	250,000	|05%	|20
4	|VC Series A	|700,000	|14%|	56
5	|VC Series B	|250,000	|05%|	20
6	|PE Series C|	7,50,000|	15%	|60
Total|	4,450,000	|84%	|336

>* Now company has 16 % shares evaluated at 64 Crs.
>* PE's generally do not invest at the early stages of a business, instead they prefer to invest in companies that already have a revenue stream
>* The process of deploying PE and utilising the capital for CAPEX takes upto 1-2 years

* **Scene 5 - The IPO**

>* Now the company wants to go international and needs a CAPEX of rs 200 Cr
>* Options available are -
>> 1. Internal accruals
>> 2. Series D funding from PE
>> 3. Debt from bankers
>> 4. Float a bond (Another way of debt)
>> 5. File for Initial Public Offering by alloting shares from authorised capital
>> 6. A combination of all above
>* Now they decide to go public for first time and thus, **Initial Public Offering**

Now we are left with some questions

1. Why did company file for IPO or why do companies in general go public?
2. Why did they not file for IPO earlier?
3. What would happen to existing shareholders after IPO?
4. What does public look before buying shares?
5. How does IPO evolve and what financial intermediaries are involved?
6. What happens after company goes public

























