## The IPO Market Part 2

It was extremely important to know how company funding takes plae before IPO because the IPO market, also called as the **Primary Market** sometimes attract companies to offer shares to the public before going through a healthy round of investing in the past. A few rounds of investment by VC and PE validate the credibility og the business. It is many a times an indicator of well run companies.

### 1. Why do companies go public?

* Obviously the main reason is to raise funds. The promoter has three advantages by taking company public
> 1. He is raising funds to meet CAPEX requiremnets
> 2. Avoiding debt so that he does not have to pay finance charges.
> 3. A buyer is essentially also taking a risk by buying the share. So the promoter is spreading his risk among a large group of people.

* There are also other advantages of going public
> 1. **Provide an exit for early investors** - Once the company goes public, any shareholder can sell their shares in open market.
> 2. **Reward Employees** - Employees in companies sometimes have shares alloted to them as incentives at discounted price. This sort of arrangement is called **Employee Stock Option**. Once the company goes public, employees see capital appreciation of their shares.
> 3. **Improve Visibility** - Going public inceases visibility of company in markets and there is a greater chance of people taking interest in the company.

Coming back to our fictional company who wants to raise 200 Cr CAPEX partly through internal accruals and rest through IPO. Company still has 16 % shares that were valued at 64 Cr. As the compay was doing really well, the valuation of these shares would have gone up.
<br>
<br>
Let us assume the company now values 16 % shares at anywhere between 125 - 150 Cr. rest comes from internal accruals. So more monet they raise, better it is for the company.

### 2. Merchant Bankers

* For a succesful IPO (What does that even mean?), company has to do a series of things. First step is to appoint a merchant banker
* Merchant bankers are also called **Book running Lead Managers (BRLM)/ Lead Manager (LM)** . His job is to assist the company in various aspects of IPO including
>> 1. Conduct due diligence on the company filing an IPO. Ensure their legal compliance and also issue a due diligence certificate.
>> 2. Should work closely with the company and prepare their **Draft Red Herring Prospectus**(LAter)
>> 3. **Underwrite Shares** - By underwriting shares, merchant bankers agree to buy all or a part of IPO shares and resell the same to public
>> 4. Help the company arrive at the price band of IPO. Price **Price Band** is the lower and upper limit of the share price within which the company will go public. It is Rs 1562 to Rs 1875 in our example.
>> 5. Help company with roadshows. This is like a promotional/marketing activity for the company's IPO.
>> 6. Appointment of other intermediaries namely registrars, bankers, advertising agencies etc. They also make marketing strategies for the issue.

### 3. IPO sequence of events

Each and every step in IPO has to happen according to SEBI guidelines. Following are the steps involved - 

* **Appoint a merchant banker** - In case of large public issue, company can appoint more than one merchant banker
* **Apply to SEBI with a registration statement** - It contains details on what the company does, why the company plans to go public and the financial health of the company.
* **Getting a nod from SEBI** - Once SEBI has registration statement, it decides whether to give a go ahead or a no go.
* **DRHP** - If the company gets the SEBI nod, it needs to prepare the DRHP which is the document that gets circulated to the public. Along with a lot of information, it should have - 
>> 1. Estimated size of IPO
>> 2. Estimated number of shares being offered to the public
>> 3. Why company wants to go public and how does company plans to utilise the funds along with a projected timeline
>> 4. Business description including revenue model, expenditure details
>> 5. Complete financial statements
>> 6. Management discusion and analysis - how the company percieves future business operations to emerge.
>> 7. Risks involved
>> 8. Management details and their background

* **Market the IPO** - This involves TV and print advertisements in order to build awareness abou the ipo. This is called IPO roadshow.
* **Fix the price band** - Price band cannot be way off then the general perception otherwise the public will not subscribe the IPO.
* **Book Building** - After roadshow and price band fixing, company now has to officially open the window during which public can subscribe for shares. For example, if the price band is beween 100 to 120 rs. , then public can choose a price they think is fair enough for the IPO issue. this process of collecting all the price points along with respective quantities is called book building. book building is a good price discovery method.
* **Closure** - After book building window is closed (generally open for a few days), then the price point at which the issue gets listed is decided. This is generally the price at which maximum bids have been recieved.
* **Listing Day** -  This is the day when the company actually gets listed on the stock exchange. Listing price is decided based on the market demand and supply on that day and the stock is listed at a premium, at par or a discount of the cut off price.

### 4. What happens after IPO?

During the bidding process, investors can bid for shares at a particular price within the specified price band

* The whole system around the date of issue where one bids for share, is referred as Primary market
* Moment that the stock gets listed and debuts on the stock exchange, stock starts to trade publicly. This is called **secondary market**
* Now the stocks are traded daily on the stock market.People start buying and selling stocks regularly.

So why do people trade? Why stock prices vary? we'll see

### 5. Few IPO jargons

* **Under subscription** - lets say a company offered 100000 shares but the public only bid for 90000 shares, then the issue is said to be undersubscribed. This is not a good dituation as it displays negativity of public towards the company
* **Oversubscription** - If there are 200000 bids, issue is oversubscribed 2x times
* **Green Shoe Option** - Part of underwriting agreement that allows the issuer to authorise additional shares (typically 15 %) in the event of oversubscription
* **Fixed Price IPO** - Sometimes companies fix the price of IPO and do not opt for a price band. Such issues are called fixed price IPO.
* **Price Band and Cut Off Price** - Price band is a price range in which stock gets listed. If the band is between 100 to 130 amd let's say it gets listed at 125. Then 125 is the cut off price.
































