# The Stock Markets

Now that we know the IPO process and what really goes in a company in its transition from primary to secondary market, we are all set to explore the stock market.
<br>
A public company has to disclose all information to the public. Shares of the company are traded on daily basis. There are reasons for market participants to trade stocks. We shall explore these reasons here.

## 1. What really is Stock Market.

* It is an electronic marketplace where buyers and sellers meet and trade their point of view.
* For example if T1 feels that share price of Infosys would go down due to recent management issues in the company , he has the point of view of a seller and would want to sell his share. On the other hand, T2 thinks that share price would come to normal after sometime and everything wuld be fine and share price would go up too, he has the view of a buyer.
* Now both T1 and T2 place order to buy and sell the share through their respective stock broker who routes it to stock exchange.
* Stock exchange ensures that the orders are matched and trade is executed
* So participant can trade their point of view as long as there are participants with opposing point of view.

## 2. What moves the Stock?

* Let us suppose Infosys announces that Infosys announces that athey are getting a new CEO who would take company to greater heights. Now there are 2 questions
> 1. How would stock price react?
> 2. would you buy or sell?
>> * For first question, answer is simple, price would move up as Infosys had leadership issue and they fixed it.
* When positive announcements are made, buyers generally tend to buy at any price which cascades into a stock price rally illustrated below - 

Sl No|	Time	|Last Traded Price|	What price the seller wants|	What does the buyer do?|	New Last Trade Price
----| ----| ----| ----| ----| ----|
01|	10:00	|3000|	3002|	He buys	|3002
02	|10:01	|3002	|3006|	He buys	|3006
03	|10:03	|3006	|3011|	He buys	|3011
04	|10:05	|3011	|3016|	He buys	|3016

* Now, the answer to the second question is we buy shares of infosys considering the fact that there is good news surrounding it.

Now let's assume NASSCOM says that customer's IT budget has come down to 15% . Now the questions that arise are - 

1. How does this impact Infosys?
2. If we were to initiate a new trade with this information, what would it be?
3. What would happen to other IT stocks in the market?

> 1. Reaction of infosys would be mixed as earlier only there was good news. However, 15 % cut is a serious matter and Infosys stocks are likely to trade lower.
> 2. At 3030, now one would try to sell the share.
> 3. Infoemation by NASSCOM is applicapble to all IT companies. Hence all IT companies are likely to witness a selling pressure.

So, basically market reacts to news and events

## 3. How does the stock get traded?

Suppose you decide to buy 200 shares of Infosys at Rs 3030

* We just need to log into our trading account and place an order. Once order is placed, an order ticket gets generated containing the following details - 
> 1. Details of trading account - basically revelation of one's identity
> 2. Price at which we intend to buy infosys
> 3. Number of shares we intend to buy
* Once the broker ensures that we have enough money to buy the shares, the order ticket is placed on the stock exchange who then tries to find the seller.
* seller could be 2 and 198 shares or any other PnC. We don't need to worry about it.Stock exchange ensures that shares are available to us as long as there are sellers in the market.
* Once the trade is executed, shares sit in our DEMAT account.

## 4. What happens after we own a stock?

* We become part owner of the company, to the extent of your shareholding.
* By virtue of owning shares, we are now entitled to few corporate benefits like dividends, stock splits, bonus, right issue, voting rights etc.

## 5. Holding Period

* Holding period can be anything from few minutes to forever. When markets are hot, there are price fluctuations in which stocks are traded in a few minutes too.

## How to calculate returns?

This is what eventually matters, whether we are able to generate money or not. There are different kinds of returns

* **Absolute returns**  - { (end value / start value) - 1 } * 100
* **CAGR (Compounded Annual Growth Rate)** - 















































