# The Stock Markets Index

If we are asked to tell about status of traffic in city. We would just check a few major roads and junctions. If the condition is chaotic at those places, we say that traffic is chaotic, else we say everything is normal. Same is the case with stocks. We just check the major companies in key industrial sectors. If they are cumulatively moving up, market is moving up else the market is moving down.

The few companies that we have identified to check how the market's doing collectively make the stock market index.

## 1. The Index

we don't have to individually look at these companies to get a sense of the market. Important companies are prepackaged and continuously monitored. This pre packaged market information tool is called **Market Index.**

There are two main market indexes in India - 

1. **The S&P BSE Sensex**

>* This represents Bombay Stock exchange.
>* S&P stands for Standard and Poor's, a global credit rating agency. S & P has the technical expertise in constructing the index which they have licensed to BSE. 

2. **CNX Nifty** 

>* This represents the National Stock Exchange.
>* It consists of large and most freqeuntly traded stocks within the National Stock Exchange.
>* Maintained by India Index Services and Products Ltd. (IISL) which is a joint venture of the National Stock Exchange and CRISIL. Term CNX stands for CRISIL and NSE

An ideal index gives us minute by minute about how the market participants percieve the future. The movements in index reflect changing expectations of market participants.

Index goes up when the market participant think that future wll be better. It goes down when participants percieve the future pessimistically.

## 2. Practical Uses of The Index

### **Information** 

>* The index reflects the general market trend for a period of time
>* I index is up, it signifies people are optimistic about future and pessimistic if the index is down.
>* Time period for calculating index can be abything from a few minutes to few months, just depends on what analysis we have to do.

### **Benchmarking** 

>* For all trading activity that one does, one needs a yardstick to measure the performance.
>* For example if we earned 120000 from 100000 , it is a 20 % return. That may look great but what if nifty moved up 30% in that period of time? That means we have underperformed the market.
>* usually the objective of the market participants is to outperform the index.

### **Trading** 

>* Trading on index is one of the most popular uses of index.
>* Majority of traders in market trade on index.
>* For example, imagine this situation. At 10:30 AM the Finance Minister is expected to deliver his budget speech. An hour before the announcement Nifty index is at 6,600 points. You expect the budget to be favorable to the nation’s economy. What do you think will happen to the index? Naturally, the index will move up. So in order to trade your point of view, you may want to buy the index at 6,600. After all, the index is the representation of the broader economy.

So as per your expectation, the budget is good and the index moves to 6,900. You can now book your profits, and exit the trade at a 300 points profit! 
>* Trades like these are possible through the **derivatives** segment of the market.

### **Portfolio Hedging**

>* Investors usually build a portfolio of securities.
>* A typical portfolio has 10-12 stocks that investor has with long term perspective.
>* Long time stocks can erode in value in times like depression of 2008. At such times, investors can use the index to hedge the portfolio.

## 3. Index Construction and Methodology

It is important to know how the index is created especially if one is an index trader.

* As we know that index is made up of stocks from certain major companies. The stocks must fulfill a particular criteria and keep following that criteria to be in the index.
* If the stock then fails the citeria, it is replaced by another stock that meets the prerequisites.
* Each stock in index is assigned a certain weightage. Weightage defines how much importance  stock gets compared to ohers.
* *For example, if ITC Limited has 7.6% weightage on the Nifty 50 index, then it is as good as saying that the 7.6% of Nifty’s movement can be attributed to ITC.

But how do we assign the weightage to the stocks that make up the index?

Indian stock exchange follows a method called as **free-float market capitalisation** i.e. higher the market capitalisation, higher the weight

* Free float market capitalisation = No of shares in market * Price of Stock
* For example company, ABC has a total of 100 shares outstanding in the market, and the stock price is at 50 then the free-float market cap of ABC is 100 * 50 = Rs.5,000.

Index is most sensitive to the change in price stock with highest weightage and least sensitive to price fluctuations of the stock in the end of the list.

## 4. Sector Specific Indices

Sensex and Nifty represent broader markets but there are also sectoe specific indices called **sectoral indices**.

* For example the Bank Nifty on NSE represents the mood specific to the banking industry.
* The CNX IT on NSE represents the behavior of all the IT stocks in the stock markets. Both BSE and NSE have sector specific indexes.
* The construction and maintenance of these indices is similar to the other major indices.



























































