# Commonly Used Jargons

## 1. Bull Market (Bullish)

If you believe that the stock prices would go up then you are said to be bullish on the stock price. Over broader perspective, if stock market is growing up during a particular period, the the market is said to be bull market.

## 2. Bear Market (Bearish)

If you believe that stock price of a particular stock would go down, then you are said to be bearish. From a broader perspective, if markets are going down, it is said to be bear market.

## 3. Trend 

Trend refers to the the general market direction, and its associated strength. For ex, if the market is declining fast, trend is said to be bearish, if there is no movement then the trend is said to be sideways.

## 4. Face Value of a Stock (FV)

Face value or par value of a stock indicates the fixed denomination o a share. Face value is important with regard to a corporate action. usually when dividends and stock splits are announced thay are decided with keeping face alue in mind. For example FV of Infosys is 5 and if they announce annual dividend of rs 63, then it means that dividend paid is 1260% (63/5).

## 5. 52 week high/low

52 week high is the highest point at which a stock got traded in the last 52 weeks (last one year), similar is 52 week low. 52 week high/low gives a sense of the range in which the stock traded over the last year. Many people believe that if a stock hits the 52 week high, this indicates a bullish trend in foreseeable future. Similarly, people believe that if the stock hits 52 week low, then the market would see a bearish trend in foreseeable future.

## 6. All time high/low

Highest and lowest price at which the stock has been traded since it's listing.

## 7. Upper Circuit / Lower Circuit

Exchange sets up a upper and lower limit to which th sock an be traded on a particular day. The highest price a stock can reach is called Upper Circuit and lowest price is called Lower circuit.Limit might be 2% ,5%,10% or 20% based on exchange's selection criteria. The exchange places these restrictions to control excessive volatility when a stock reacts to certain news related to the company.

## 8. Long position

Long position or going long is simply a reference to the direction of our trade. For example, if we have bought or intend to buy shares of Biocon then we are said to be long on biocon or planning to go long on biocon respectively. If we have bought Nifty Index with expectations that the indexwill trade higher then essentially we have a long position on Nifty. If we are long on a stock or an index, we are said to be bullish.

## 9. Short Position 

It basically means selling something before buying it and buy it when the time is right. Here is a direct example, suppose I have a flipkart login which allows to buy xiaomi phone but my friend does not have an account so he cannot buy it. The price of phone was speculated around 14000. Now my friend walks up to me and makes an offer that he is willing to buy the phone at rs 16500. So i accept the offer and take the money as I speculate that the phone would be around 14000 . Now Im, in a situation where I,ve sold a phone to Rajesh, which I don't own yet. Only fear is what if the phone comes out for 18000, then we would lose money.

So let us take a look at the sequence of events
> 1. first we sold the phone that we didn't even own
> 2. We bought it later on flipkart and delivered it to friend.

This type of transaction is called a 'Short Trade'

Now as for stock markets

* Let's say we buy a stock for rs 405 and then sell it for rs 425 on day3, we have made a rs 20 profit on stock because we wre bulish on the stock andit happened.
* Now can wee make profit even when we are bearish about a stock. Yes, by shorting it. Basically we first sell the stock at rs 425 on day 4 and buy it back on some later day when the price goes down to say rs 400 according to our speculation.
* So, first leg of the tail now os selling the stock and the second leg is buying it back at a lower price at a later time. we have execute the same trade as buying at 405 and selling at 425 but in reverse order.
* But here's the million dollar question, how can we sell stocks of a company without owning it. So, when we first sell, we essentially borrow it from someone else. We donot need to worry about from who we are borrowing, stock exchange does that in the backend seamlessly. 
* So if we are bearish on a stock, we can short the stock.

so finally,to sum up
>* We short when we have a bearish view on the market. We profit if the stock price goes down and if the sock price goes up, we end up making a loss.
>* So when we short , we essentially borrow from another market participant, and we will have to deliver these shares back. We dont need to care abou the mechanics, The system takes care of that.
>* Shorting is easy. we either call our broker and ask him to short the stock or do it ourselves using trading account.
>* Shorting a stock is best done on the derivatives market 
>* Summarising long and short positions - 


Position|	1st Leg|	2nd Leg|	Expectation|	Make money when|	You will lose money if|
----| ----| ----| ----| ----| ----|
Long|	Buy|	Sell	|Bullish|	Stock goes up	|Stock price drops
Short|	Sell|	Buy|	Bearish|	Stock goes down	|Stock price goes up

## 10. Square Off

Square off means that we intend to close our existing position. 

1. If we were long on a stock, squaring off means to sell the stock
2. If we were short, squaring off means to buy the stock back.
>* We need to remember that when we are selling the stock to close an existing long position, we are not shorting the stock and similarly if we are buying back to close the shorting position that does not mean we are going long

When you are	|Square off position is|
----| ----|
Long	|Sell the stock|
Short|	Buy the stock|

## 11. Intraday position 

Trading position in which we intend to square off the existing psition the same day.

## 12. OHLC (Open, High, Low and Close)

* Open is the price for which the stock opens for the day
* High is highest price of stock during the day
* Low is lowest price during the day
* Close is closing price of stock for that day

example, the OHLC of ACC on 17th June 2014 was 1486, 1511, 1467 and 1499.

## 13. Volume 

Volume srepresent the total transactions (both buy and sell put together) for a stock on a particular day.example, on 17th June 2014, the volume on ACC was 5, 33,819 shares.

## 14. Market Segment

Market segment is a division in which a certain type of financial instrument is traded. Each financial instrument is traded by its risk and reward parameters.

The exchange operates in three main segments - 

1. **Capital Market** - This segments offers a wide range of tradable seurities such as equity, prefrence shares, warrants, and exchange traded funds. capital market segment has sub segments under which instruments are further classified. For example, common shares are traded under the equity segment abbreviated as EQ.  SO if we buy or sell shares of a company, we are essentially operating in the capital market segment.

2. **Future and Options** - It si generally refrred as equity derivative segment and is where one would trade leveraged products.

3. **Wholesale Debt Market** - Wholesale debt market deals with fixed income securities. Debt instruments include govt securities, treasury bills, bonds issued by a public sector undertaking, corporate bonds, corporate debentures etc.









































